Let's actually see these
together in action.
So I got one more demo.
I'm gonna use StackBlitz again.
We're actually gonna go a little bit
different here I have this link/bear but
for the sake of your sanity and time what
we're gonna do is actually go/Hacker
News because we're just
gonna jump straight through.
You can also do it by the CLI.
And if you do the CLI, the prompts will
ask you what sample project you wanna do,
but we're gonna go
straight to Hacker News so
that we can generate our
project straight from this is
one of the coolest
things about StackBlitz.
Even in a mono repo, you can pull
example project straight out and
get the latest version here.
So let me introduce you to Solid Start or
SSR framework and
introduce you to one of my favorite demos
of all time, which is Hacker News demo.
I've built this demo in
pretty much every framework.
So this is one that I am
relatively familiar with.
So, again, I wanna emphasize
this right off the start here.
This is just BT again.
I'm very excited about what we can do
here with BT cuz again in this case it's
the Solid Start plugin,
not just the plain solid plugin.
But Solid Start plugin is just
a collection of plugins and those
plugins can be produced independently and
can be used in any solid project.
But the truth matters Solid Start is
a fairly powerful setup in that you can do
client side rendering like
we've been doing all day or
you can do Server Side Rendering.
The default here is Server Side Rendering.
So this is a Server Side Rendered
app with client navigation.
So when we load the page we
initially loaded from the server and
then as we navigate this is client side
navigating between our stories and
then we can go in look at,
compressed some comments and
basically have our application.
So the reason I wanted to show this off
obviously though is I wanted to show
off how routing works in solid and kind
of get a feel for the data loading APIs.
Solid Start Project,
instead of having index.HTML like
we were looking at before,
We bring our index HTML into the JSX.
It gives us just a little bit more control
and you can see some default setup here
where we have error boundaries and
suspense kind of wrapping our app.
And user developers like yourselves
could go in and put in your own suspense
boundaries and error boundaries where you
need to but this is a good sane default
that means like if something happens
wrong somewhere we'll catch it for you.
Or something is a sync like
it's you loadings lazy route or
something we have a default
to handle this for you.
In our case we just added a fall back
here which shows this loading thing.
Honestly, this app is so fast,
probably on this network,
you're never gonna actually see
the loading state admittedly.
I don't even think I'm gonna,
yeah, it's too fast.
But this is just there in
case anything goes wrong.
Solids router can be configured using JSX.
But I'm not gonna cover that today.
Instead, I'm just gonna show you the
convenience of file system based routing.
And the way we do that is we actually
take the routes component from Solid's
router and
then Solid Start provides a file routes
component that as a way of injecting it.
You could define your own routes however
you want, but you can make custom routes,
but then you can just go give me
the ones in the file system and
inject them cuz kind of like switch and
match.
Arkham components can return
anything in this case it's
just returning a config
of what routes you have.
Then there's these two
files the entry client and
the server not terribly relevant render,
this is just kind of setting up stuff.
If you want to make some middleware, you
kind of inject it in here on the server.
And on the client side,
it is just literally kind of a mount call,
which we alias this because Solid Start
also works a client side rendering.
So if you're in client side,
render mode equals render,
if you're on server side
rendering mode equals hydrate.
So this is just a way of
kind of clarifying that.
But most of our work here is actually
going to be in our routes directory,
which is where the file
system routing starts.
And we've got a couple conventions.
I would say it's a cross between old
Next.js, like previous Next.js, and Remix.
Is kind of like our convention
where we use things like ..., for
Start routes, we use parameterized
routes like this by using square braces.
And we also use the convention for
nested routing by using the file name
the same name as the folder name.
This example does not have that.
But just to kind of understand.
This example is very simple in fact,
there's only three pages we have a top
level page that catches like all
the top headlines zooming out and
then we have individual pages for
stories and users.
I didn't highlight this on
their route component earlier,
but the NAV is out here outside of
the Spence outside the file route.
So it never changes when we navigate.
It just stays there, and
then we only replace
the content that comes in down below.
So this is basically
the layout of this project.
So, I've also set up this library
where I've got some APIs,
and this is a bit of a mix match.
I've been putting this around for a bit.
But it's a combination of
Firebase Hacker News API, and
then a proxy that does some nicer
things where we don't have to
fetch every single comment
individually on the page.
But essentially, you can kind of write
your data layer kind of outside and
kind of import it in.
And in this case we're using just fetch
API essentially to get our data and
a little bit of error checking and
whatnot, and
it will just fetch whatever
URL we give to it.
Okay, so the key part here is that
With solids router you can configure
those data functions in but
with file based routing,
we've kind of set up a convention where
you can just go export const route data.
And this function actually runs client and
server.
So in this case we're
doing isomorphic fetch.
So it works on both sides.
But against a third party API,
so it's fairly straightforward.
And what you're seeing here is we're
creating a resource that has our stories.
And then we have the types for
our data and
then you we use the type of route data to
get our typed resources back out again.
So let me see here yeah and
all that happens in
this pages which show some
page content here and
then when there are stories sorry
that's not what I'm looking for.
When they're stories we
iterate through each story and
show that story with a for loop.
Let's face it logic one thing you'll
notice here is we do have the null
checks in our template cuz our suspense
doesn't throw and it doesn't block.
If you don't want things to continue you
do actually have to like check if it's
actually there.
But what's interesting about this is it
means that if you don't use suspense,
all our primitives still work as well,
it's just it's there mostly
to coordinate the kind of loading and
stuff for SSR like streaming.
We have out of order streaming for SSR.
And this kind of pattern here is
essentially how you build your apps.
The other convention that we do with
solid and Solid Start quite often is
that we use capital case versions of
normal HTML elements as a convention
to show that this is like a progressive
enhanced version of this.
This means that works without
JavaScript or with JavaScript.
So we have capital A anchor and
capital F form.
This allows us to do things like
progressive enhance forms by just
importing the capital of form component.
So it'll work with or without JavaScript.
And obviously there're anchor tag here,
which also works that way.
But I wanna focus mostly,
today we're gonna focus more
on data fetching patterns and
asynchronicity rather than on mutation.
And one thing you can see here that
already even though there isn't
the loading indicator,
is when I click next for the page,
I mean it's happening so
faster, there's a delay there.
You can see that page three
doesn't update right away this
is because those transitions
are baked right into the app.
And although we're not using it in this
example we could because our router is
routing and
that is basically like the pending state.
So if you ever wanna show that something
stale you just import is is routing and
you can use that to indicate what
state you are in in your app.